Introduction to Machine Learning

Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence that enables computers to learn and improve from experience without being explicitly programmed. It focuses on the development of computer programs that can access data and use it to learn for themselves.

The process of learning begins with observations or data, such as examples, direct experience, or instruction, in order to look for patterns in data and make better decisions in the future based on the examples that we provide. The primary aim is to allow the computers to learn automatically without human intervention or assistance and adjust actions accordingly.

Some machine learning methods include supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning. Supervised learning algorithms build a mathematical model of a set of data that contains both the inputs and the desired outputs. Unsupervised learning algorithms take a set of data that contains only inputs, and find structure in the data, like grouping or clustering of data points. Reinforcement learning is an area of machine learning concerned with how software agents ought to take actions in an environment so as to maximize some notion of cumulative reward.

Deep learning is part of a broader family of machine learning methods based on artificial neural networks with representation learning. Learning can be supervised, semi-supervised or unsupervised. Deep learning architectures such as deep neural networks, deep belief networks, recurrent neural networks and convolutional neural networks have been applied to fields including computer vision, speech recognition, natural language processing, audio recognition, social network filtering, machine translation, bioinformatics and drug design.

Machine learning is employed in a range of computing tasks where designing and programming explicit algorithms with good performance is difficult or unfeasible. Example applications include email filtering, detection of network intruders, and computer vision.

Machine learning is closely related to computational statistics, which focuses on making predictions using computers. The study of mathematical optimization delivers methods, theory and application domains to the field of machine learning. Data mining is a related field of study, focusing on exploratory data analysis through unsupervised learning.

Modern machine learning is often divided into two major paradigms: supervised learning and unsupervised learning. There is also semi-supervised learning, which is a hybrid of the two paradigms. There's also reinforcement learning, which is very different from the other two paradigms.